Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Ryan Morrow: Guys, a little bit behind today.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To why some faraway
Ryan Morrow: Interview better
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, a little better.
Ryan Morrow: All right, good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let me first, get some housekeeping out the way. Let me confirm your location where are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hear me right
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I can hear you. You want to know where I'm at.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, there's an emergency and no
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Send out
Ryan Morrow: I'm I took you off Bluetooth. Can you hear me better
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, way better.
Ryan Morrow: Right. Perfect.
Ryan Morrow: So you need to know my location.
Yes.
Ryan Morrow: Like, like a home and loving Texas.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. Okay. And so help me to recall, do you are you a resident of New Mexico. How often do you go to Mexico.
Ryan Morrow: About once a week on the weekends.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, you pick up your medication from the Mexico.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: I just work here in Texas.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Ryan Morrow: I have been apart. I have an apartment here.
Ryan Morrow: And then I stay at my mom's house and close
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I'm just doing. I just want to make sure I can verify where patients are located. When I do a session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So have you been what's been going on with you.
Ryan Morrow: Well,
Ryan Morrow: I guess the same as last week.
Ryan Morrow: I am still laid off from work, so
Ryan Morrow: It's kind of waiting for
Ryan Morrow: Everything to open back up so I can start going to the gym and I still haven't heard anything about when I'm going to be able to go back to work.
Ryan Morrow: And so I've just been trying to stay busy doing other, I don't know, run errands doing things that I need to do in between.
Ryan Morrow: But mostly just staying home, to be honest.
Ryan Morrow: I try to find excuses to go to Walmart and go shopping and get out of the house.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah. So yeah.
Ryan Morrow: But I think next Monday the gyms are opening back up so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, how did it turn out if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The woman that you were speaking to. And where was challenges with the communication.
Ryan Morrow: Um, well, we talked about a week later, and
Ryan Morrow: I, you know, I apologize. And she apologized and
Ryan Morrow: We're, we're cool. So
Ryan Morrow: So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any recent conversations tuitions that you want to process during the session.
Ryan Morrow: Um,
Ryan Morrow: Well, yesterday was Mother's Day. And I got to see my mom through video
Ryan Morrow: It's called duo
Ryan Morrow: It's an app. And so I saw my mom and my sisters, they were all and me and my sisters, got my mom a necklace and some flowers.
Ryan Morrow: For Mother's Day so I wasn't able to, I didn't go home, but I did spend some time with them on video so
Ryan Morrow: So,
I know, yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I didn't want to go home because my step dad and my brother in law are still kind of mad at me.
Ryan Morrow: And so I didn't want to cause any problems. So I just stayed away.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What, what are the, the ending terms that they're still upset about.
Ryan Morrow: Just the fact that I was doing drugs again and and hurting my mom and my sisters and
Ryan Morrow: I guess line. I don't know. They're just they still have
Ryan Morrow: They're just still upset with me so
Ryan Morrow: They're not. They're not very forgiving kind of people
Ryan Morrow: I don't know if they believe in grace or not.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is your mom's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Her husband, but
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, my sister's husband.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like they're like kind of taken on the role and like your stance is interesting that the relationship most valuable to us their spouses don't don't want to speak with you have any interaction with you.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, yeah, they will they've seen me do a lot of damage to my sisters and my mom. So I really can you really can be mad at them.
Ryan Morrow: Or I really can't.
Ryan Morrow: Logically, like think that they should be happy with me and be happy for me right now.
Ryan Morrow: Because I have a, I have a long history of
Ryan Morrow: This
Ryan Morrow: So it's going to take a while.
Ryan Morrow: It's going to take a while to rebuild the those trust you know getting Silver's just the
Ryan Morrow: The first part.
Ryan Morrow: staying sober and, you know, you know, your family, I get tired of hearing you say you're going to do at this time. They want to see action and I hear words.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Ryan Morrow: I just have to, you know, look at from their point of view.
Ryan Morrow: And be understanding
Ryan Morrow: So,
Ryan Morrow: You know i doing when you're on drugs. That's not really the problem.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: You know, that's just the cover up
Ryan Morrow: So when you so when you get sober. You know, you got to deal with whatever you got to figure out what made you
Ryan Morrow: You know, start doing drugs again or start doing drugs, period.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're happy found out in that in that reflection.
Ryan Morrow: Um, I mean, I guess the only thing that I can figure would be the maybe I have a lot of shame and guilt for not being a father to my kids.
Ryan Morrow: And
Ryan Morrow: My dad was really hard on me growing up and he always spoke a lot of negativity into me. And I think that that had a huge effect on you know
Ryan Morrow: The outcome of my confidence and my security and me loving myself and accepting who I was as a person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: shame and guilt associated with things. Please pass
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then, and then the parallels of your father and how disciplined you so was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That abuse aspect, but then the shame that you dealt with it more. So a neglect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With your children and not being present.
Ryan Morrow: Right.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Ryan Morrow: There's a lot of things that happened when I was younger I had my kids, when I was like 1415
Ryan Morrow: They are they are biracial
Ryan Morrow: And so
Ryan Morrow: I'm mean, my family's not prejudiced. But I think the fact that I was 14 and 15
Ryan Morrow: That didn't really help me but
Ryan Morrow: My mom and dad, his mom especially my step mom and my dad.
Ryan Morrow: They, they had my daughter move to club as and help her get into nursing school and stuff so
Ryan Morrow: I don't think it was really a racial issue. I just think it was the age and
Ryan Morrow: The circumstances.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Ryan Morrow: My daughter is absolutely beautiful.
Ryan Morrow: My son, they're both really good kids and their mom pretty much raised them.
Ryan Morrow: By herself, because they moved away.
Ryan Morrow: After
Ryan Morrow: She had her second kid.
Ryan Morrow: And so I didn't really get to be a father to my kids.
Ryan Morrow: So now our relationship is more of like a friendship relationship.
Ryan Morrow: I don't really try to be a father figure so much because I don't feel like I deserved that.
Ryan Morrow: Position.
Ryan Morrow: But they both love me and they both call me dad and they don't really have any grudges. They understand, you know, the circumstances.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With the mom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He didn't hear you.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I mean, a little bit. I've talked to her on the phone, a couple times in the past couple of years, and I mean we get along, like she has sympathy for me because she knows that I've had problems with drugs and stuff.
Ryan Morrow: And so she hasn't really she filed for calls for like 10 years ago.
Ryan Morrow: And so I owe a lot of back child support, but she doesn't really like she could really like she could have my license suspended, you know, she could really pressed to have
Ryan Morrow: You know things done to me the would be she'd having put in jail probably
Ryan Morrow: But she doesn't really press the issue. She gets my income tax return. She got my stimulus check
Ryan Morrow: I pay as much as I can. When I can
Ryan Morrow: If they're not garnish my wages.
So,
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, it's kind of a, it's kind of a
Ryan Morrow: Mess up deal all around.
Ryan Morrow: One side of me. I don't think that she needs it because they're both over 18
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what I was wondering.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What those last loss. I'm shocked that you're still going to leave it.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, well, okay, so since I wasn't a, you know, I didn't help raise them.
Ryan Morrow: I guess she was able to file even and I don't even think she was on welfare, but I think he went to the child support division and was able to file for back child support payments, just because I'm the father and because
Ryan Morrow: I didn't help raise them. And so I have like $70,000 in back child support.
Ryan Morrow: So anytime the IRS sends me money. It goes to her.
Ryan Morrow: And so I mean it. One side of me kind of it kind of pisses me off that she's, she's still does that because she knows that my life's been kind of rough
Ryan Morrow: And she really doesn't need the money and I'm pretty sure that when she gets the money she doesn't give us a guy or Jocelyn.
Ryan Morrow: I'm pretty sure she keeps it for herself.
Ryan Morrow: And so I it kind of upsets me that she still is pursuing
Ryan Morrow: And she wants told me a couple of years ago that she was going to drop it after I started being in their lives more
Ryan Morrow: And then she changed her mind after she got divorced, because she said she needed the money. So she went back on her word. And so now it's like, I understand. She raised them and she probably does deserve. But it's 400 a month. And it's like,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Asian or
Ryan Morrow: combine both
Ryan Morrow: For both of them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Red pain restitution then child support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know,
Ryan Morrow: Yeah. Yeah, definitely.
Ryan Morrow: So long. I mean, my license is suspended. I don't have any benchmarks out for it. So I guess she's okay with you know whatever she gets once you can get it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The balance of kind of reaping the consequences of, you know, the past things that you've done.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And finding
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Finding avenues to have forgiveness and understanding. So the situations are that with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your children's mother, and then also with the spouses for your mom and sisters
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which parts of you feel as though I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If any that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You don't need to understand
Ryan Morrow: Which part so me feel like I don't need to understand
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, when it comes to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The relationship.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The stepfather.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The brother in law and then it's working.
Ryan Morrow: Well, I mean,
Ryan Morrow: I can't. I have no control over how people
Ryan Morrow: Their perception of me or their outlook of me no matter
Ryan Morrow: How good I do or how bad I do
Ryan Morrow: You know i i can't control.
Ryan Morrow: What they're thinking or feeling
Ryan Morrow: I guess all I can do. From this point is, do the right thing and let them know
Ryan Morrow: The side if they want to forgive me and accept me or you know just totally like cut me off and look at me as the black sheep of the family and not really, you know, it's something that I don't really have control over. Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I don't think they want an apology from me.
Ryan Morrow: I don't think that, you know. Apologies are kind of bullshit.
Ryan Morrow: At the end of the day.
Ryan Morrow: Or the everyone. Nobody wants to nobody wants to hear. I'm sorry. People want to see like your, your actions.
Ryan Morrow: If you're really sorry for something, then you know you change your, your ways and your behaviors.
Ryan Morrow: And and then everything follows
Ryan Morrow: So if I
Understanding
Ryan Morrow: Do what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When did you come to this understanding of, you know, what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm that I'm not in control of their actions and just
Focus on these
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something that you just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: wake up one morning and figure out
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I mean I think pretty logically and so I don't really expect people to be like, Okay. Ryan sober. Now, so, you know, you know, let's
Ryan Morrow: Go all in and and be his know be his friend again or or whatever.
Ryan Morrow: Have a relationship with them or be nice to them or
Ryan Morrow: Accept him or
Ryan Morrow: And so I've, I've always had that outlook where. Look, I know that I did wrong and that because my dad's always told me, you know, words are just words, your actions are what. And so I've never really expected them to have been forget about what I did and just forgive me, and move on.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So because you're a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Logic logical person I can imagine, have you come up with different
Ryan Morrow: Steps
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To get to kind of like what your ultimate goal is
Ryan Morrow: Um, well, I think the more I get my life together. The longer I stay sober, the more responsibility I show
Ryan Morrow: Them, the more maturity and responsibility that they'll start seeing that. And after three or four or five years of sobriety and doing the right thing. I think that, you know, they might have a different outlook and be like, oh Ryan's really changed this time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what has worked this time around for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this isn't your first rodeo.
Ryan Morrow: I'm just staying in contact
Ryan Morrow: With the people that I'm close to
Ryan Morrow: taking advice from people and
Ryan Morrow: Actually making an effort and honest effort to
Ryan Morrow: Follow up on my sobriety like like going through the steps in the motions, not just
Ryan Morrow: Thinking about it or do or, you know, writing it down on a piece of paper. But actually, like, you know john doing my meetings like I'm supposed to
Ryan Morrow: taking my medication. The way I'm supposed to
Ryan Morrow: I'm just stuff like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This time around, don't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feel as though you're going through the motions, what has been
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What has been helpful for you in group individual study
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Meaning this program.
Ryan Morrow: I said, I think I just finally came to a place in my heart, my mind where I was tired, I'm done being sick and tired like i i'm done hurting my mom. I don't want to have to go back to rehab anymore. I just, I'm done with it all. It's not worth it.
Ryan Morrow: And so this time I'm, I'm really trying to stay stay on top of my sobriety.
Ryan Morrow: Instead of putting work in the gym and my social life in front of it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the internal work that
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, because you know if you keep doing the same thing over and over again, nothing will ever change.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm doing the work.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What triggers. Have you identified that have led to your relapse in the past mentioned
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The trauma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything else emotion associated with
Ryan Morrow: Um, I don't know, anytime life starts to fall apart.
Ryan Morrow: I started so self.
Ryan Morrow: You know, being negative
Ryan Morrow: And speaking death over myself. I guess like life's never going to change. I'm always going to be the same.
Ryan Morrow: And and then eventually it leads to, you know, forget it. I'm just gonna
Ryan Morrow: Just going to finish, you know, and go back to what I do best.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that always never is the defense mechanism we all have different irrational thought processes that sort of assumption for us. Well, we're in a matter of conflict.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For disappointment. And so what I heard you say is like a lot of people, the black and white thinking serves you in those moments. So I'm actually going to share a video that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For other patients that depicts what black or white thinking looks like and to help teach a lot of that self sabotage spirals, that when things go wrong, you kind of gravitate towards
Okay.
Ryan Morrow: That sounds cool.
Ryan Morrow: When I realized for my 34
Ryan Morrow: I went to sleep with gum in my mouth. And now there's gum in my hair. And when I got out of bed this morning I tripped on escape wasn't by mistake. I dropped my sweater in the sink, while the water was running
Ryan Morrow: And I could tell it was going to be a terrible, horrible mill. Good. Very bad day.
Ryan Morrow: Everything is Alexander and the terrible, horrible middle good very bad day. Well, it's a perfect example of black and white thinking
Ryan Morrow: So what is black and white thinking black and white thinking is a pattern of thought characterized by thinking in the extremes. Everything is always the worst day ever. For
Ryan Morrow: The very best day ever. You know, we think of things in their absolute. It's a polarized way of thinking.
Ryan Morrow: And it messes us up because it makes our emotions, more extreme than they need to the black and white thinking is also known as all or nothing thinking
Ryan Morrow: It interferes with our ability to have healthy emotions and relationships signs that you might be using black and white thinking is, if you use words like always, never
Ryan Morrow: Terrible ruined furious or you try to make things out to be worse than they were like, I mean, you might have actually had a bad day.
Ryan Morrow: But it was the worst day ever. Or, so things might have gone wrong. And you might say nothing when. Right, right. So we're taking something and we're making it out to be.
Ryan Morrow: More exaggerated than it already was now why does black and white thinking mess us up. Well, the way we think affects our emotions.
Ryan Morrow: And if we're thinking in an exaggerated manner then our emotions are going to swing rapidly from one extreme to the other people with anxiety or depression tends to think in extremes.
Ryan Morrow: And we can combat anxiety, depression and other mental illnesses by having more realistic honest or moderate thinking patterns.
Ryan Morrow: Black and white thinking makes the problem worse than it already was black and white thinking creates helplessness. If my husband is a complete jerk the biggest jerk in the whole world.
Ryan Morrow: Then makes no sense for me to try and change myself or improve myself because nothing is ever going to work.
Ryan Morrow: See that black and white thinking in there and how that's going to contribute to problems in my relationships. Another reason black and white thinking messes us up is
Ryan Morrow: It invites defensiveness, and others. So if you say to someone, you never do the dishes.
Ryan Morrow: They're going to feel attacked, because that's not quite true. You're exaggerating how bad they are sure they might miss doing the dishes and they might have forgotten to do the dishes and they might have
Ryan Morrow: Intentionally not done the dishes that day or multiple days, but to say never exaggerates how bad they are puts people on the defensive and it just invites arguing and debating.
Ryan Morrow: And fighting the more extreme of statement, the more likely the other person is to feel attacked if black and white thinking is so awful than. Why do we do it now. I
Ryan Morrow: Need something that everything we do serve some kind of function right even if it's dysfunctional in the long run we do it for some sort of reason.
Ryan Morrow: And black and white thinking does serve a function. It just doesn't work very well. So black and white thinking helps us feel like we're the victim of our circumstances.
Ryan Morrow: Which is kind of comforting. Right. Isn't it nice to think, well, poor me you know everything's out to get me.
Ryan Morrow: And black and white thinking excuses us from having to do the difficult work of taking action and changing ourselves so if
Ryan Morrow: My job is the worst job ever or my boss is the meanest guy ever excuses us in our mind from having to take responsibility for our part of the problem.
Ryan Morrow: And working hard to fix it black and white thinking helps protect us from feeling guilty or accountable for our own actions, and this might feel more comfortable.
Ryan Morrow: But in the long run, creates more problems, black and white thinking also protects us from feeling vulnerable. So if we're thinking in extremes, like everything is awful.
Ryan Morrow: Then we have more excuse to just kind of hide in bed, you know, pull the covers over our head and
Ryan Morrow: And you know wallow instead of actually experiencing those tender feelings that we might be having like hurt or sadness. Perhaps we're feeling guilty or
Ryan Morrow: You know, uncertain about the future black and white thinking is also very simple. It gets rid of the complex nuanced reality that we have to face every day.
Ryan Morrow: And it gets it gets rid of that complexity that we experience when we're interacting with another person because every human being is a combination of good and bad.
Ryan Morrow: But if we just glue you know label them as being completely bad, then we don't have to manage a lot of that complexity that's involved in in relationships.
Ryan Morrow: Now while these are some of the functions of black and white thinking and it does you know work in the short term to relieve us of a little bit of that.
Ryan Morrow: discomfort in the long run. It's going to make us pretty unhappy if we consistently use this pattern of thinking in our lives, the more extreme our thinking.
Ryan Morrow: The more likely we are to be depressed. So saying things like, I'm a terrible person or wow she has it all together. She is such a saint.
Ryan Morrow: Or no one's going to ever like me. No one wants to be my friend. These are simplistic statements.
Ryan Morrow: That feed those negative emotions and create that feeling of helplessness, that is associated with depression. The reality wife is there is no perfect job perfect marriage, no perfect person.
Ryan Morrow: And by telling ourselves that someone is either perfect or awful.
Ryan Morrow: We're creating more problems for ourselves than they need to be, if we want to improve our emotional control. We need to challenge our black and white thinking
Ryan Morrow: So how do we fix it if we catch yourself engaging in some of these thinking patterns. What do we do about it.
Ryan Morrow: Well, number one, start to notice the signs of all or nothing thinking so look out for words like we talked about always never any type of exaggeration, what I like to call horrible ization
Ryan Morrow: Or trying to make someone else out to be perfect number to challenge your thoughts. Just because you're thinking, it doesn't mean it's really true. So look for a more truthful and more moderate
Ryan Morrow: Way of thinking about each situation or person so that takes us right to number three which is we need to replace those thoughts with a more moderate view of the situation. So back to the dishes situation.
Ryan Morrow: Instead of saying you never do the dishes you big jerk say something like, okay, it bothers me when you don't do the dishes.
Ryan Morrow: And I know that I also miss my chores. Sometimes, how can we work together to solve this
Ryan Morrow: Number for an essential part of resolving black and white thinking means we have to increase our capacity to experience ambiguity think we need to increase our tolerance.
Ryan Morrow: Of complex situations, our ability to hold on to a little bit of discomfort, while we while we wrestle with a situation or a problem. Remember, life is beautiful.
Ryan Morrow: Difficult complicated joyful painful. In order for us to be able to fully live and and appreciate and enjoy life. We need to embrace all the complexity that is involved with it.
Ryan Morrow: If we want to get healthier. It's not about just feeling better. It's about getting better at feeling so consider a couple of these questions. Can someone love you and still be insensitive. Sometimes, can you be basically intelligent and still do something dumb.
Can experience be really hard, but still be beautiful, in some way, remember one of the main reasons people get depressed is because of how they perceive reality.
When we change the way we look at things, the things we look at change when we're able to be more flexible and intentional in how we think.
That depression is going to be more likely to lift and will start to get feeling better, depression, often centers on one incessant thought
Like no one likes me when we replace those negative thoughts with healthy thinking
Then the depression has nothing to feed on changing the way we think is really quite difficult. We might not even notice that we're doing it. So try to reach out for some help.
Ask others for their perspective on how you talk about yourself, or how you talk about situations.
Watch yourself for signs of this negative in black and white thinking or work with someone like a mental health professional.
To change the way you think, by reducing or eliminating black and white thinking we can live much healthier lives. So I hope this was helpful. Thanks for watching, and take care
Ryan Morrow: That was interesting.
Ryan Morrow: And
Ryan Morrow: I can, I can relate to that.
Ryan Morrow: In a lot of different ways.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, when when life gets a little difficult. I see the
Ryan Morrow: The
Ryan Morrow: The worst in it.
Ryan Morrow: And
Ryan Morrow: You know, always knowing that there's a blessing. At the end of of hard times and hardship.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the emotional treasure. I heard you identify was like disappointed when things aren't working well and I get disappointed you know the emotional trigger issues I despise
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so before regulations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, things don't work well and you said the word the negative than positive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What is the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Pandemic I have seen some things. A DIFFERENCE RIGHT. IT SAYS, I'M IN THE BAT initial impression when we met, and you were a container really in despair, but everything that was going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then there's a shift. So it's almost like I got a visual of what wine looks like the matte black or white.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But then the next session, there was a shift.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: From curious to know what changed what help you to get out of that mindset.
Ryan Morrow: Well, trying, I'm trying to learn to love myself again and
Ryan Morrow: I know that there's light at the end of the tunnel. I've been through this before and I've made it through it before and I've and I've had a lot of good things happening.
Ryan Morrow: So I know that it's not the end of the world. And as long as I keep doing the right thing and making you know good choices to get things are going to happen.
Ryan Morrow: So I just started
Ryan Morrow: talking to myself, you know, positively and being optimistic about the future.
Ryan Morrow: And not thinking that my life's over I'll never be able to be successful. No lie says what it is, it's always going to be this way.
Ryan Morrow: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For catching that that that language. You know when you find yourself. All right. If the point is a trigger for like if I start using always or never. I realize now that it's now not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: emotional trigger
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I am adapting to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My rational thought patterns.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of all or nothing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And from there, and her history repeating itself up at the relapse kicks it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so talking with this thing and also identifying the thought of really capturing if I use the word always by use the word never, I need to challenge and spot right away.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, put that thought on trial. If you have those situations where you say, Well, things never work out for me, you know, you could use the scenario with the pandemic.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: While we were down my love for you to know what was happening. And then within about two weeks, turn around, you have purchasing a vehicle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you can use those examples, I know it's doesn't always happen to me, he said, I do always it's always a light at the tunnel. I always find a way for it to work out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's something that you can apply whenever you notice those
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: patterns within itself.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I've always been pretty good at getting myself.
Ryan Morrow: Situations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Slow resourceful part
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Comes in handy. Are there any family members that also have that we've been a black or white.
Ryan Morrow: Now my family there. They're pretty stable. I mean, they're
Ryan Morrow: very down to earth and they think very logically and
Ryan Morrow: They're just they're just great people. I mean, they're very loving, caring and understanding
Ryan Morrow: And so, you know, whenever I was using, you know, they had to cut me off and and kind of show me tough love so that I would, you know, know that they weren't going to accept me as a drug addicts and that I'd had to get help. And in order for me to have a relationship with them.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That worked well for you, having guns strict boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In place by your family's work well please do yourself in force found to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With others.
Ryan Morrow: To do one
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yourself because I'm encouraged that your family having their boundaries in place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is helpful for you to keep you in line with the change that you want to see.
Ryan Morrow: Oh, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are, you know, are you able to execute boundaries or create boundaries within your own personal relationships.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I mean, if
Ryan Morrow: I'm if I'm in a bad situation.
Ryan Morrow: Where I say I show up to a dinner day and
Ryan Morrow: Our I meet a girl, you know, on a day she tells me that she does drugs or he's drinking excessively then I separate myself.
Ryan Morrow: That's just one example. But I try to stay away from
Ryan Morrow: I'm pretty aware of my surroundings and I know when I'm in a good or bad situation. And if I sense that I'm in danger of, you know,
Ryan Morrow: Self Harm where I could be vulnerable to, you know, do something that I shouldn't do. And I'm pretty good at, like, you know, getting out of that situation.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you highlighted your strengths and capabilities and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know your relapse prevention. What areas do you need assistance with you have challenges. So I can work with you to kind of support.
Ryan Morrow: I don't know. That's a good question.
Ryan Morrow: I'm not really sure.
Ryan Morrow: I know like going back to Clovis is kind of a trigger for me because I know like
Ryan Morrow: Where, where to go and
Ryan Morrow: You know you're, you know, spiritually, I believe it's a spiritual battle.
Ryan Morrow: And
Ryan Morrow: Like I think going to clovers sometimes makes me vulnerable to make a bad choice.
Ryan Morrow: And so
Ryan Morrow: I'm kind of optimistic about going back on often
Ryan Morrow: Because I don't know if you know I don't really have someone with me to keep me accountable. It's easy for me to sneak off and go do something if I want to do it.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Ryan Morrow: I, I have to come to a place
Ryan Morrow: Where, you know, if somebody puts my drug of choice in front of me.
Ryan Morrow: I gotta come to a place where I can walk away from it.
Ryan Morrow: And right now I don't know if I'm strong enough to do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Acknowledgement is the best thing that you can do for yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thinking that you have that strong willpower and control is almost naive, so it's good. Honestly, it's not a weakness, not a vulnerability. It's actually a strength and she can identify
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That, yes, and the more control when I'm away from the way from
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Actual location of why knows
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How to actually
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, like being here, loving, I don't know where to get it so it never crosses my mind like um you know today. Sounds like a good it would be good to get high and just, you know, forget about everything and you know escape, where if I were in Clovis, and I was having a bad day.
Ryan Morrow: It would be a lot easier for me to say.
Ryan Morrow: I could just go get high, you know,
Ryan Morrow: And so
Ryan Morrow: I got it you know get myself strong enough, mentally, spiritually physically to where I can say no, no matter what the circumstances are
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That may look like you know making
Ryan Morrow: Oh yeah I don't plan on going back to Clovis unless it's just for a daily visit
Ryan Morrow: Anytime in the near future. There's no opportunity there for me.
Ryan Morrow: So that's not really even an option in my mind.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So resources and just creating a location and chat right there is relaxed, because you're reducing your
Job.
Ryan Morrow: Right, I'm just thankful. I'm not an alcoholic because alcohol is every corner store every restaurant. It would be so easy to relapse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Met with a patient that you know alcohol is unless you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know it's because of legal, you can go to the restaurant, you can drink and it's socially as that's why watch shows like alcohol is everywhere you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, but if you go to the rest of my you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just start shooting up heroin. That's not socially acceptable.
Ryan Morrow: rials and the crazy thing is is alcohol is deadlier than arrow and
Ryan Morrow: If you look at the statistics. Yeah. And the withdrawals, or worse.
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: So I'm you know
Ryan Morrow: I'm not saying the heroines any better than alcohol, but it's just crazy to me that alcohol is legal and even cigarettes and they kill way more people than some of these other drugs, too.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But yeah, and being aware of that to that not identify other drugs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As a response to the point, isn't it.
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So looking at mobile things which I call a red flag box that kind of give you another side of things that feel to the land so that you can say, well, it's not too bad. And then from there you spot the negotiating phase and then negotiating a fast when the adjustment range of pixels.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, and you met yourself you can be very vulnerable. Whenever you get inside your head and you start rationalizing
Ryan Morrow: Like
Ryan Morrow: Oh, you know, I could go get high today and you know be okay and just not not do it anymore. Yeah. You know, like your brain, your mind is your own worst enemy. A lot of the times.
Ryan Morrow: So I think it's really important to stay busy, you know, doing positive things throughout the day.
Ryan Morrow: To where your mind can never wander off into that negative place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It sounds like you got a good hold of, you know, everything that you need to do.
To stay on the right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In our meeting to really to identify
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That I think that you need assistance with, you know, continue to strengthen the genesis already working well for you for the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: School, some of the underlying things that you may not have identified that was actually a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trigger
So there's no recognizes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's see.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Next week, Monday, I already have all my clients getting my group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I open to do on a bi weekly schedule with that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And bi weekly. I'm going to be optimal one
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, just. When's your next available.
Ryan Morrow: It doesn't have to be Monday, it can be Tuesday, but
Ryan Morrow: Monday works pretty good or
Ryan Morrow: I like to keep it a day away a day, apart from my meeting on Wednesday, if possible.
Ryan Morrow: Like Friday or Monday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I can do Monday the 18th
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And set up at five.
I should do that for
Ryan Morrow: That's for her mountain
Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does that work for you.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, Monday, the 18th, which is they that's next Monday.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah it 5pm Central my time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, yeah, that sounds good, Jessica.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, take care.
Ryan Morrow: All right, thank you so much. Have a good rest of the weekend. Enjoy your weekend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Take care.
Thank you. Bye.